Resolving bugs is all about
lowering the risk of change.
When you have a bug,
especially a bug that is made all
the way out in production,
fixing that bug is a change.
But you should fix bugs.
But what if you introduce
more bugs by fixing that bug?
What if you introduce a worst
bug by fixing that easy bug?
What if it's Friday at 4 o'clock and
all your buddies are down at the pub and
you're trying to decide, do you fix the
bug and risk introducing a worse bug or
do you just let the bug go till Monday?
Lowering the risk of change helps
make this whole thing a non-issue.
How do you make it so that releasing
a new version of your app is a non-issue?
This goes back to the impact in
the context of your application.
Is this a life or death thing?
Are we talking about pacemakers?
Are we talking about people's lives?
If we are, releasing of a new version
of your application needs to have
the appropriate safeguards so
that people don't die.
For most of us, I think we can
probably reach an appropriate level of
confidence to make releasing
our applications a non-issue.
And that can come from
a lot of different angles.
It can come from continuous integration,
continuous delivery build process.
Do you have the ability to check in
your code to your source control and
know that it works?
Will it automatically build?
Will it automatically run test suites?
Do you have test suites?
Do you do unit testing for
your lower level code?
Do you do browser level testing to make
sure that actually all work together?
If you have these in place,
checking in a change to your code and
deploying it can be
a relatively confident thing.
I will tell you a little bit about some
changes I made to the biggest code base
that I maintain.
The main code base that I maintained today
is the TrackJS JavaScript agent itself.
I don't get to write the UI anymore.
But I still maintain
the actual JavaScript agent.
That when I push it to the CDN,
it's literally in millions of people's
pages and thousands of different
apps as soon as I push it.
So there's a tremendous
risk that I will break my
customer's pages if I do something wrong.
And so my impact was quite high.
I was quite scared to make changes to it.
And so we had to make a number of
changes to how we built the app over our
lifecycle.
So, introduced a better
unit testing cycle for
the things that needed to
be tested at that level.
We introduced using Sauce Labs,
a full end to end browser testing cycle
that runs every time we check in.
And we track 400 different classes
of errors across 18 different
browsers every time we check in.
Every time we commit to master,
we run our full test suite to make sure
that we're not gonna break anybody.
And then because I still then trust that,
we used a strategy called Canary,
where I have a handful of my customers
who have been very generous.
Have decided they are willing to point
their web applications at my Canary
release.
And so I can release to Canary when
I've committed a change in my test pass,
and I let that bake for two hours,
four hours, six hours a day.
However big I need to
be to be confident or
however long I need to be to be
confident that it's going to work.
And I know at the end of that,
that it is going to work.
I've let real users and
real applications run this thing.
And I have all the instrumentation
to know that it's not gonna break.
That was a story about how we
lowered the risk for our change.
And all the stuff that I needed to
do to reach a level of confidence so
that when I run into a bug at 4:30 on
a Friday, I'm not worried about it.
I can fix it in my test pass,
I'm gonna send it to Canary.
And then maybe when I get back from
the pub, if everything looks good,
I'm gonna go ahead and
ship it to production.
Because our testing and
our analytics cycle has enabled that.
That does a tremendous amount
to lower the stress and
lower the overhead to
build quality software.
If releasing a fix to your bugs is
a non-issue, you'll fix more bugs.
If fixing a bug is hard, your bug backlog
is just gonna get bigger and bigger and
bigger.
And nobody's gonna wanna do it
because it's scary and hard and
nobody wants to be blamed for
making it worse.